---
title: |
  Multi-area Economic Dispatch and Interchange Scheduling:
  A multiparametric programming approach"
speaker:
  name: Lang Tong
  affil: ECE, Cornell
  url: https://people.ece.cornell.edu/ltong/
---

Large interconnected power systems are often operated by independent
system operators, each has its own operating region within which
internal resources are used economically. The operating regions are
connected physically by tie lines that allow one operator to import from
or export to its neighbors for better utilization of overall system
resources. The operators, in general, are unwilling to share private
information, especially on internal system and market data.

Existing approaches to tie-line scheduling rely on trades across borders
at proxy buses by market participants. The ad hoc uses of proxy buses
and the imperfect information used by the market participants result in
substantial economic losses, estimated at the level of $784 million
annually for the New York and New England customers.

In this talk, we present some recent results on the optimal scheduling
of interchange among independently operated power systems.  The first is
a multiparametric programming technique that achieves optimal economic
dispatch within a finite number of iterations among neighboring control
centers.  The second is an interface-by-interface optimization algorithm
for solving the stochastic interchange scheduling problem.

This is a joint work with Ye Gou and Yuting Ji supported by the National
Science Foundation and DoE Consortium for Electric Reliability
Technology Solutions.
