---
title: "When Machine Learning Meets Robust Optimization: Data-driven Adaptive Robust Optimization Models, Algorithms & Applications"
speaker:
  name: Fengqi You
  affil: ChemE, Cornell
  url: https://www.cheme.cornell.edu/people/profile.cfm?netid=fy86
---

In this presentation, we will introduce a novel data-driven adaptive
robust optimization framework that organically integrate machine
learning techniques and optimization under uncertainty. A Bayesian
nonparametric model – the Dirichlet process mixture model – is adopted
and combined with a variational inference algorithm to extract the
information embedded within uncertainty data. We further propose a
data-driven approach for defining uncertainty set. This machine learning
method is seamlessly integrated with adaptive robust optimization
approach through a novel four-level optimization framework. This
framework explicitly accounts for the correlation, asymmetry and
multimode of uncertainty data, so it generates less conservative
solutions than conventional robust optimization methods. Additionally,
the proposed framework is robust not only to parameter variations, but
also to data outliers. Because the resulting multi-level optimization
problem cannot be solved directly by any off-the-shelf solvers, an
efficient column-and-constraint generation algorithm is proposed to
address the computational challenge. Applications on batch scheduling
and on process network planning are presented to demonstrate the
advantages of the proposed modeling framework and effectiveness of the
solution algorithm.
