---
title: Bayesian Image Reconstruction 2
speaker:
  name: Yi Wang
  affil: BME+Weill, Cornell
  url: http://www.bme.cornell.edu/people/profile.cfm?netid=yw233
---

A major goal of this talk is to connect with SCAN community on some
specific computational questions from us, a group of data physicists and
engineers. We have been working on solving the tissue magnetism
(susceptibility, highly valuable in biomedicine) inverse problem, which
has an ill-posed dipole kernel connecting susceptibility to a field
(integral solution, IS), or a wave operator on susceptibility equal tp a
Laplacian on a field (PDE). We have some good success (quantitative
susceptibility mapping, QSM), and we hope to discuss with the audience a
question on data fitting with IS vs with PDE: they seem to be equivalent
to each other, but numerically they seem to give different results. We
have very rich data experience, so we would like to share our
engineering experience on preconditioning, which seems to be very
important in practice, and we would also like to share our engineering
experience with various gradient based solvers, which seems not to
matter much. Then the second question is why so regarding
preconditioning and solver. We seem to be comfortable in dealing with a
single regularization parameter using the discrepancy principle (L
curve), but we are struggling with selection of multiple regularization
parameters. So the third question is, any good advice on selecting
multiple regularization strengths? Lastly, we will touch on an exciting
new development on solving transport inverse problem (critically
important in biomedicine).
