---
title: An Extended Symmetric Galerkin Boundary Element Method for General Crack Propagation (X-SGBEM)
speaker:
  name: Nikolaos Bouklas
  affil: MAE, Cornell University
  url: https://www.mae.cornell.edu/people/profile.cfm?netid=nb589
---

This talk will cover the theoretical development of the Extended Symmetric Galerkin Boundary
Element Method (X-SGBEM), a numerical framework proposed for 2D and 3D general crack
growth simulations that allows the intersection of cracks with outer boundaries. This framework
merges numerical concepts from Extended Finite Element Method (X-FEM)/Partition of Unity
Method (PUM) and the SGBEM for linear elastic fracture simulations. Boundary Element
Methods are preferred for linear elastic fracture calculations, as they are highly accurate and can
be implemented into algorithms that are significantly faster than the frameworks developed for
fracture mechanics using the Finite Element Method (X-FEM, phase-field/variational model for
fracture). Boundary Element Methods have the advantage that only the boundaries and the cracks
need to be modeled in the domain of interest; this facilitates minimal requirements for
remeshing. Higher order crack tip elements can also provide precise fracture information (stress
intensity factors) without requiring extremely fine meshing. Up until this day, there is no
mathematically rigorous, optimized scheme that allows Boundary Element Methods to handle
crack intersections with other surfaces (whether we are referring to other cracks or outer
boundaries) without significant remeshing. Such a numerical technique could facilitate the study
of fatigue crack growth and microcracking in brittle linear elastic materials, as well as
simulations of fracture networks in geomaterials. This talk will include a review of prior
developments of SGBEM in the context of fracture mechanics, and cover current developments
of X-SGBEM.
