---
title: Matrix-Perturbation Theory in Network Science: Centrality, Dynamical Systems and Multimodal-Data Analysis
speaker:
  name: Dane Taylor
  affil: Mathematics, University at Buffalo
  url: https://www.buffalo.edu/cas/math/people/faculty/taylor.html
---

Centrality analysis—that is, identifying the most important nodes in a network,
or graph—has diverse applications ranging from web search (e.g., PageRank) to
the control of dynamics on networks (e.g., oscillator synchronization and
information dissemination). Networks are commonly encoded by matrices (e.g.,
adjacency or Laplacian), and their spectral decompositions are widely
utilized. Matrix perturbation theory provides a formalism to analyze the impact
of structural perturbations on spectral-based network analyses, including—but
not limited to—eigenvector-based centrality measures, such as Bonacich’s
eigenvector centrality, Kleinberg’s hub/authority scores, and Google’s PageRank
algorithm.

First, I will leverage classical results for nonsingular spectral perturbations
to quantify the importances of nodes, edges, and subgraph motifs in
network-coupled dynamical systems—a topic closely related to
eigenvalue/eigenvector elasticity for perturbed dynamical systems. For
heterogeneous dynamical systems, we find it crucial to take into account both
the structural heterogeneity and dynamics’ heterogeneity. Turning to
data-science applications, I will introduce an approach using perturbation
theory for Von Neumann entropy to quantify the extent to which a given empirical
network belongs to a random-graph (null-model) ensemble. I will conclude with
ongoing work in which we develop singular perturbation theory for multimodal
datasets represented by block-structured ``supra’’ matrices (akin to unfolded
tensors). I will introduce a generalization of eigenvector-based centralities
for multiplex and temporal networks (wherein layers represent complementary data
sources and/or different time instances) and analyze the limiting behaviors
under very strong and weak interlayer coupling.
