---
title: Towards Multiscale Computational Design of Bioinspired Smart Materials
speaker:
  name: Jingjie Yeo
  affil: Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Cornell
  url: https://jingjieyeo.github.io/
---

The rapid aging of the global human population is leading to a startling rise in
noncommunicable diseases that are becoming more severe and burdensome for
communities who can least afford treatments for these diseases. To dramatically
improve the prevention and treatment of noncommunicable diseases, smart
biomaterials must be developed at a low cost for drug delivery vehicles with specific
targeting mechanisms, environmentally sensitive implants for tissue engineering, or
dynamic health monitoring. Multiscale computational design of protein-based
biomaterials can address this problem by rationally tailoring the biomaterials’ physical
and chemical properties to achieve multifarious stimuli-responses. Three key bio-
inspirations can be utilized for designing stimuli-responsive biomaterials: strong and
lightweight silk from silkworms, structurally mutable elastin from the human skin, and
reflectin and crystallin in squid’s chromatophores that help produce dynamic coloration.
Multiscale molecular dynamics simulations, in combination with advanced sampling
methods, can effectively and rapidly capture the structural transitions in silk and silk-
elastin proteins that are subjected to solvent processing or high temperatures.
Crosslinking silk-elastin proteins at high concentrations inhibits de-swelling by
constraining their ability to remodel their structure. Homology modeling coupled with
molecular docking simulations and the analysis of electrostatic properties unveil the
importance of site-specific localization of reflectin and crystallin in the chromatophores
of squid’s skin. Crystallin forms granules that serve as protective repositories for the
pigment molecules for robust pigmentary coloration while reflectin confers iridescence,
and this combination of mechanisms give squids their complex and adaptive coloration.
These three bio-inspirations provide crucial design principles to guide the way towards
truly rational computational design of multi-stimuli responsive biomaterials.
