---
title: Generalized Hypergraph Cuts: from Theoretical Foundations to Applications
speaker:
  name: Nate Veldt
  affil: Cornell University
  url: https://people.cam.cornell.edu/lnv22/
---

Networks provide an excellent way to model systems of interconnected data with
pairwise relationships. However, there has been a growing realization that many
complex datasets and systems in the real world are better characterized by
multiway relationships. For example, social interactions often occur in groups,
consumers purchase multiple products during a shopping trip, and chemical
interactions typically involve more than two molecules. This realization has led
to a surge of interest in algorithms for mining information from network data
with generalized mathematical structures that encode higher-order
relationships. One of the most flexible models for higher-order relationships is
a hypergraph, which can encode multiway relationships of arbitrary size.

This talk will present our recent innovations in models and algorithms for
common data science applications -- including community detection, partitioning,
sparsification, and semi-supervised learning -- involving hypergraphs:
specifically, hypergraph cut problems. We introduce a very general notion of a
hypergraph cut function motivated by data science applications, one that hasn’t
yet been considered despite decades of research into hypergraphs, and then
consider algorithms and hardness results for minimizing special sub-classes of
this function in practice. We apply these results to explore and tease out new
insights from various real-world datasets, ranging from large retail product
datasets to food webs. Scalability in terms of hyperedge size and number of
hyperedges is often an issue with hypergraph-based generalizations and we show
localization techniques enable us to scale to data with millions of hyperedges
of large size.
